DLT MultiNode
=============
Christoph Lipka <clipka@jp.adit-jv.com>
0.0.1, 2016/10/19 Initial Version

Overview
--------

MultiNode allows to connect DLT Daemons running on different operating systems, e.g. in a virtualized environment.
The central component is the Gateway DLT Daemon which connects external DLT Clients, like the DLT Viewer running on a host computer with Passive DLT Daemons running on nodes without a physical connection to external DLT clients.
All communication between passive nodes and DLT Viewer has to be send via the Gateway node. The Gateway node forwards log messages coming from passive nodes to all connected DLT clients.
The Gateway DLT Daemon also forwards command and control requests coming from DLT clients to the corresponding passive node.

Precondition
------------
The dlt.conf configuration file which is read by each DLT Daemon on start-up contains an entry to specify the ECU identifier (node identifier).
It has to be ensured, that each DLT Daemon in the System has a unique ECU identifier specified.
The ECU identifier is included in every DLT Message and is used to distinguish if a DLT message has to be forwarded to a passive node or handled by the Gateway DLT Daemon itself.

Configuration
-------------
The dlt.conf configuration file provides an option to enable the Gateway functionality of a DLT Daemon.
The default setting is 0 (Off), which means the Gateway functionality is not available.

# Enable Gateway mode (Default: 0)
GatewayMode = 1

Gateway Configuration File
--------------------------
The MultiNode configuration file has to be loaded by the Gateway DLT Daemon during startup.
----
[PassiveNode1]
; IP Address. (Mandatory)
IPaddress = 192.168.2.32
; TCP port. Default 3490 is used if no port is specified
Port = 3495
; Passive node ECU identifier. (Mandatory)
EcuID = ECU2
; Connection to passive node only on demand. Default ‘OnStartup’ if not specified
Connect = OnDemand
; timeout in seconds
Timeout = 10
; Send following control messages after connection is established
SendControl=0x03, 0x13
; Send SerialHeader with control messages. Value in dlt.conf is used
; as default if not specified
SendSerialHeader=1
----
The configuration file is written in an INI file format and contains information about different connected passive nodes.
Each passive node’s connection parameters are specified in a unique numbered separate section ([PassiveNode{1,2, …N}]).
Because TCP is the only supported communication channel, the IPaddress and Port of the Passive 682 DLT Daemon has to be specified.

With the Connect property it is possible to specify when the Gateway DLT Daemon shall connect to the passive node.
The following values are allowed:
    - OnStartup
        The Gateway DLT Daemon tries to connect to the Passive DLT Daemon immediately after the Gateway DLT Daemon is started.
    - OnDemand
        The Gateway DLT Daemon tries to connect to the Passive DLT Daemon when it receives a connection request.

The Timeout property specifies the time after which the Gateway DLT Daemon stops connecting attempts to a Passive DLT Daemon.
If the connection is not established within the specified time, the Gateway DLT Daemon gives up connecting attempts and writes an error messages to its internal log.
The following control messages are supported to be send to a passive node automatically after connection is established:
    - 0x03: Get Log Info
    - 0x13: Get Software Version

Using dlt-passive-node control application
------------------------------------------

----
Usage: dlt-passive-node-ctrl [options]
Send a trigger to DLT daemon to (dis)connect a passive node or get current passive node status.

Options:
  -c         Connection status (1 - connect, 0 - disconnect)
  -h         Usage
  -n         passive Node identifier (e.g. ECU2)
  -s         Show passive node(s) connection status
  -t         Specify connection timeout (Default: 10s)
  -v         Set verbose flag (Default:0)
----
